	Do you ever have computer issues? If you've ever tried anything to fix them, you've done troubleshooting. Troubleshooting is the process of solving or determining a problem to an issue. Troubleshooting often involves the process of elimination, where a technician will follow a set of steps to determine the problem or resolve the problem. It traces and correct faults in a mechanical or electronic system. Troubleshooting is a form of problem solving, often applied to repair failed products or process on a machine or a system. Troubleshooting is needed to identify the symptoms.

	Troubleshooting is one of the major works a computer enthusiast can do. It is part of the daily basis whenever you make programs or create a machine from small components. After all, not all machines works well in just one try. One small mistake could damage your machine. And that’s where troubleshooting comes in handy. A troubleshooter could check each component in a system one by one, substituting known good components for each potentially suspect one.

	Troubleshooting can be applied on desktop computers, laptops, and any other computer gadgets. Even a software application, troubleshooting can be practiced whenever there is a problem in the program.  So if you have a broken laptop, desktop computer and if you are knowledgeable in troubleshooting, you can fix your computer in no time.

	Troubleshooting a computer could be through technically or manually. Technical troubleshooting allows built-in software inside the operating system to determine the problem in the computer. Manual troubleshooting involves opening the computer parts and manually inspect each of them to determine the problem in the computer.

	When applications appear to be slow, frustrated users waste time and energy. That’s why troubleshooting is important.

	My experience in this subject is quite eventful. I enjoyed at the same time learned a lot as we tackle further on this subject. I learn a few but important things that could guide to me to be a better computer engineering student. It introduced me to the deeper parts of the computer hardware and software. The hardware and software are like a yin and a yang. One cannot exist without the other. If there is no hardware, then there is no software. If there is no software then there is no hardware. Therefore, it is very important to one another. 

	When we had our troubleshooting with a CPU Unit, I learned that just because it’s a CPU Unit doesn’t mean that it has the same motherboards, hard disk drives, power supply unit. Every components varies according to what brand the part is. Therefore, it has different connections from another brand. Observing is also needed in troubleshooting. Otherwise, you could connect a wrong connection which could further damage the computer. Just because, it has the same pins doesn’t mean that it is the right connection so we should be careful. Then as we troubleshoot further, we realized that the problem is not really in component we troubleshoot first so we move to another component.

	Each component inside the Unit was troubleshooted carefully and we found no problems with until a certain component, the Power Supply Unit. When we opened the Power Supply Unit built in the CPU Unit, we noticed that the fuse of the Power Supply is fried. A fuse is an electrical safety device consisting of or including a wire or strip of fusible metal that melts and interrupts the circuit when the current exceeds a particular amperage. When we noticed that it was fried, we found out what was the root of the problem why the desktop computer won’t work.

	Not all people can buy a new computer. That’s where troubleshooting comes in handy. If you know how to troubleshoot, it could lessen the burden of your expenses into buying a new one. What if the only problem is the mouse? You can troubleshoot the mouse and try to fix it. What if there is only a fried fuse? You can replace it instead of buying the entice CPU Unit. What if there is only a loose connection? Find where it as supposed to be connected and voila, your computer is as good as new.

	Troubleshooting is what we can apply to our daily lives. Observing makes us realize where the problem really came from. Assuming could create false solution and may lead to another problem. Taking your time and being careful maybe a slow pace but it is an effective one as to come up with a solution to a problem.

	Troubleshooting could teach you. As you troubleshoot, you get to familiarize the components inside the computer. You get to know what its name is and for what purpose it is. It taught you how to care for your computer so that it won’t get broken again. It also taught you that each component has purpose with one another in order for a computer to work. Troubleshooting taught us that each component has its own parts. Therefore, if that component is defective then we can troubleshoot it in order to fix it. It also taught us how to boot up manually which most people forget nowadays since the new generations of technology has ignored to upgrade a more high technology for easy use. 

	Troubleshooting may consume time and effort. But it is worthy when you found a solution to fix your computer with lesser expenses. There is a solution in every problem. It just needs time, hard work and patience. The further you troubleshoot, the easier you may fix future problems in the computer. You can also help other people and teach them how to troubleshoot.

	Even in the daily lives, troubleshooting is everywhere. When your bike’s chain got loose, you troubleshoot it as to where the problem it might be that the chain got loose and give a proper solution to fix the chain. When your faucet’s broke, you troubleshoot it if there was a loose screw of something and find a way to fix it. Even doctors are also troubleshooting with their patients in order to give them the proper medication and advices.

